( chuckles )
We shouldn't be here.
Don't worry.
Nobody saw us leave.
( both grunt )
Hey, I need that.
What if somebody
tries to call?
Shh.
What was that?
Don't worry.
Come here.
( chuckling )
( panting )
Captain's Log, supplemental.
JANEWAY:
After two weeks, we're close
the Varro's warp drive.
to repairing
Then there's the Varro crew.
I'm starting to think
warp travel than accept
they'd rather give up
help from strangers.
I thought we agreed
would be off-limits.
Central Control
access your warp assembly.
We did, but I need to
That technology's
classified.
We have to reconfigure
the assembly
to finish this job.
if we're going
Then consider it finished.
We've come this far...
upside down for two weeks.
You've turned our ship
I've yet to see
any results.
the antimatter injectors.
You might check
Back on line.
All you need now is
a jolt of antimatter
from Voyager's engines
back in business,
and you'll be
to your warp assembly.
but I need access
I can understand
You know,
why you're distrustful
of other species.
Frankly, we've had
a rough time
Quadrant ourselves,
in the Delta
but our two species have
made remarkable progress,
to repair your engines.
working together
We've come a long way
since you ignored
our opening hails.
Let's not throw
all that away.
I'll admit we do share
some things in common.
We're both on long journeys,
looking for allies.
we're like cousins.
In many ways,
"Cousins"?
Well, distant cousins--
think about it.
400 years ago, you started
out the same way we did--
a single starship, a small crew,
facing the unknown
and now, centuries later,
a generational ship
you've grown into
and culture all your own.
with a history
When I look at your vessel,
I can't help but wonder
Voyager's future.
if I'm seeing
Our journey could easily
last several generations.
So, what do you say...
cousin?
You can access the warp
assembly from here.
Thank you.
Status?
Their plasma couplings
are on line.
TORRES:
the antimatter transfer.
We're ready for
Then let's get started.
Janeway to Voyager.
Ready here, Captain.
Status?
Initiate the transfer.
Warp reactors 1 through 14
are coming on line.
It's working.
fingers crossed.
Keep your
For luck.
If you're planning on leaving
you might want to get dressed.
through the viewport,
might get a little chilly.
The interstellar vacuum
What?
Oh. Funny.
Come back to bed.
I can't sleep.
Cuddle.
I can't cuddle.
I told you we're not
going to get caught.
If someone had seen us, they
would've reported it by now.
about half a dozen regulations
I'm violating
by just being in this room,
and what we did earlier...
even has a regulation for that.
I don't know if Starfleet
What are you saying?
Making love is a crime
in your culture?
Yes! No. What I'm saying is
it's a breach of protocol.
How romantic.
The Captain instructed
all away teams--
no personal interaction
with the Varro crew.
I violated a direct order.
Come back to bed.
That's an order.
Are all humans
so jumpy?
No.
Only me.
( rumbling )
The warp engines.
the plasma transfer.
They started
We've got to get down there.
We're late.
( chuckles )
What are you waiting for?
To see what you look like
in my uniform.
( rueful chuckling )
( chuckles )
You don't understand.
If I'm not at my post...
You'll be executed.
Funny.
We better go in separately.
( sighs )
Impressive.
Just trying to orchestrate
the antimatter flow.
You should try some Chopin
when you're done.
for the final movement.
Look who showed up
Excuse me?
Just a little late
for the joke
as well as the job.
I was checking the manifolds
in Segment 22.
( door opens )
Warp reaction's
destabilizing.
Tal?
I can't find
the problem.
We're less than a minute away
from multiple core breaches.
Abort the transfer.
finger crossing.
So much for
B'Elanna.
I'm reading microfractures
all over the hull.
Why couldn't we detect
that before?
have to check the hulls
Good question. We'll
vessel's segments.
on each of your
But that'll take days.
The sooner we start,
the sooner we finish.
Friendly people.
They've had a lot
of bad experiences
with other species.
Well, I don't know.
contact went pretty well.
It seems like your first
What's that supposed
to mean?
you disappeared to today.
I'm just wondering where
I told you.
I was checking the
plasma conduits in...
In Segment 22.
I know.
They must have sonic
showers over there.
You're a lot cleaner than
you were when you left.
a lousy liar.
You are such
Haven't you learned
anything from me
after five years?
Who?
She's cute.
That assistant
engineer, Tal.
Cute enough.
Oh, here we go again.
What?!
You. Going after
impossible women--
a hologram, an ex-Borg,
the wrong twin,
a xenophobic species?
and now a girl from
You're absolutely right.
You're right.
of my mind. I promise.
I'm putting her out
Good. Glad to hear it.
on the Bridge.
I'm due back
See you in the morning.
Computer, open a channel
to Varro ship,
Segment 16, Station 204.
security protocol Alpha-7.
Encode transmission with
Channel open.
COMPUTER:
What took you so long?
I've been waiting 22 minutes
for you to call.
I was testing myself,
I could resist calling you.
seeing how long
And?
I lasted 22 minutes.
Should I feel complimented
or insulted?
Since this is the first chance
I've had to open a com-link...
complimented.
So... you liked what happened.
Yeah. A lot.
Enough to try it again?
but I've got to be honest.
Absolutely,
something so... different.
I wasn't expecting
Our species look so similar.
Neither was I.
Well, at least on the surface.
I would've never guessed
when it came down
to the basics...
well, let's just say,
would be very confused.
the birds and bees
"Birds and bees"?
I'm telling you,
PARIS:
you should take a look
at their database.
amazing stuff on that ship.
They've got some pretty
Stuff.
Well, their environmental
control systems,
for instance--
it's completely
regenerative.
Zero waste.
Impressive.
It can be programmed
to create
almost any habitat.
you could recreate Vulcan
If you wanted to,
with that system.
in your quarters
Why would I want to?
A little taste of home
in the Delta Quadrant?
Think about it--
the shores of Lake Yuron.
springtime on
and a bed, nothing more.
I require a desk
You're missing
the point.
No doubt.
traveling for 400 years.
These people have been
They've learned
a thing or two
about living comfortably.
more than adequate.
Our systems are
( frustrated groan )
I give up.
After only two minutes?
Tuvok, how do you do it?
illogic overwhelms him.
I wait until his own
( chuckles )
( beeping )
an unauthorized transmission.
I'm detecting
Origin?
Unknown.
It's been encoded.
Find out where
it's going.
most like to be right now?
Where would you
Besides your quarters?
Besides my quarters.
On a distant moon,
and the gravity is light.
where the air is warm
No bulkheads around me.
Where, if I walk too quickly,
I can almost fly.
I like that.
What about you?
Where would you most want
to be right now?
Besides your cabin?
( chuckles )
Besides my cabin.
Sorry. I can't come up
with anything better
than your cabin.
And what would you do
if you were here?
Now?
This very moment.
to dim the lights.
I'd ask you
And what if I said...
...no?
Okay. So, we leave
the lights on.
The message has been sent
to the Varro ship.
Segment 16.
Living quarters.
Uh, Commander?
I think I can track
that down for you.
Something's wrong.
Hold on.
I'm losing the signal.
( communications static )
Tal?
The transmission has ended.
a transmission.
If it was
a glitch in the com system.
Could have just been
Run a diagnostic.
of these structural problems
Finding the source
isn't going to be easy.
They've already scanned
most of their ship
and come up empty.
I'm hoping we'll
do a better job.
We should form smaller teams
to maximize efficiency.
We'll work in pairs.
Agreed.
start with their reactor room
Now, what I'd like to do is
detected the problem...
where we first
You owe me.
What?
Eyes front.
sabotage the com system
Last night I had to
to cover your tracks.
You called her,
didn't you?
Guilty.
this been going on?
How long has
The truth.
we first saw each other.
From the moment
It was like touching
an open plasma relay.
Hmm. Sounds serious.
Maybe it is.
Has it occurred to you
a few dozen protocols?
that you're breaking
we're getting into.
We know what
Do you?
Our duty assignment.
We're to survey
the generational ship
from Astrometrics.
have finished scanning
Teams Alpha and Gamma
SEVEN:
Sections 1 through 64.
Kind of puts a Borg cube
to shame, doesn't it?
The vessel's technology
is impressive,
but its construction
is haphazard.
I guess they sort
of improvised
as they went along.
Seven, you've been around
humans for a while now.
What do you think
about love?
We're scanning for
microfractures.
the relevance.
I don't see
Just curious.
Parental love,
romantic love,
affection between
friends. Specify.
Romantic love.
An attraction based
on sexual desire,
one that facilitates
procreation.
I guess I'm asking
the wrong person.
The Borg have referenced
Not at all.
this condition in over 6,000
assimilated species.
"Condition"? You make it sound
like a disease.
Physiologically, it bears
a striking similarity
to disease.
of biochemical responses
A series
an emotional cascade,
that trigger
impairing normal
functioning.
Forget it.
Are you in love,
Ensign?
I've been asking myself.
I guess that's what
( gasps )
You're glowing.
I beg your pardon?
Your epidermis luminesced.
Huh...
Must be the lighting
in here.
No, it was you.
( gasping )
You should report
to Sick Bay.
It's nothing.
You must comply.
I feel fine.
Lie still.
feeling wonderful.
No doubt you're
are abnormally elevated.
Your beta endorphins
Really?
You've been spending
on the generational ship.
a lot of time
Do you recall coming into
contact with any toxins?
Antimatter radiation?
No.
of their medical bays--
Maybe something in one
a biological agent?
No.
any of their cuisine?
Did you consume
No.
Doctor, there is unusual
synaptic activity
in his cerebral cortex.
No kidding.
This could be the work
of an alien virus.
full quarantine protocols.
We'll have to initiate
and request a bio-alert.
Inform the Captain
Wait.
There's no need
for that.
I can explain.
I'm listening.
Could you give us
some privacy?
If there is the possibility
of an epidemic
the Doctor may require
my assistance.
There isn't and he won't.
Please.
( door opens, closes )
Last night, I had an...
one of the Varro.
encounter with
Encounter?
A... personal encounter.
Specifically?
Sex. We had sex.
You had intimate contact
with an alien species
medical clearance?
without
It was in the heat
of the moment.
I didn't think anything
like this would happen.
Correction. If you'd been
thinking, you would have
and exercised restraint.
considered the risks
Sit down.
You'll need a full
biomedical workup,
have to come in as well.
and your "friend" will
Do we have to drag
her into this?
It is my medical
responsibility,
which, I'm sorry to say,
also requires me
to report this
to the Captain.
( sighs )
( door opens, closes )
more from you.
I expected
I'm sorry.
what I was thinking.
I... don't know
I've seen Tal.
Don't you?
young woman, beautiful,
She's an impressive
but that's no excuse
to ignore your obligations
as a Starfleet officer.
Yes, ma'am.
you took a semester
There's a reason
of interspecies protocol
at the Academy.
There's also a reason
on Personal Relationships
why the Handbook
is three centimeters thick.
"All Starfleet
personnel must
"obtain authorization
from their CO
"as well as clearance from
their medical officer
"before initiating an
intimate relationship
with an alien species."
Bravo. Unfortunately,
comes a little late.
your recitation
According to the Doctor,
your condition isn't
life-threatening.
confine you to Sick Bay,
There's no reason to
with his recommendation
but I do agree
to run full bio-scans
on both you and Tal.
And her people need
to be told,
so they can evaluate
any bio-threat
you might've introduced
into their population.
We're trying to help
these people, Ensign,
earn their trust.
I was even hoping
they might return the favor,
share their technology,
long-term space travel,
their insights into
but your little escapade
put that in jeopardy.
Permission to speak freely.
With all due respect...
this wasn't a fling.
I've really gotten
to know Tal,
true feelings for her.
and I've developed
Noted.
But there are regulations,
and you've broken them.
reprimand into your record
I'm entering a formal
and I'm ordering
you to break off
this relationship.
Do you understand?
Yes, ma'am.
Dismissed.
I wanted to share
Commander,
a few security concerns.
A few days ago,
I noticed
some Mess Hall supplies
had disappeared--
liquid nutriments,
emergency rations,
nothing to warrant
a Red Alert, but...
investigating on my own.
I took the liberty of
Take a look at this.
the Mess Hall replicator
Unauthorized use of
is hardly a felony.
It wasn't just
unauthorized.
Someone accessed
the ship's
environmental controls
from that station.
to Jefferies Tube G-33, Deck 15.
Life support was routed
normally uninhabited?
Isn't that section
encoded the procedure
Whoever did this,
so it wouldn't be detected.
have intruders.
It appears we
a Varro scanning device.
It looks like
confined to this chamber
Breathable oxygen is
and the area immediately
behind this hatch.
Stand back.
( gasps )
( door beeps )
Come in.
Work?
tormenting myself
No. I'm just
with what-ifs.
What if I had the chance
that pulsar field,
to actually see
of just squinting
go there instead
at it through
long-range sensors?
your course, huh?
Too far off
Too close to an
inhabited planet.
contact with us."
"They might make
"It's too dangerous."
the same thing.
It's always
generational ship.
The mighty
All we do is run away
that's different.
from anything
going to change.
But that's
got some bad news.
I'm afraid I've
I, uh...
I can't see you anymore.
Captain's orders.
How did she find out?
to me this morning.
Something happened
I had a strange
sensation,
and then my skin luminesced,
just like last night.
That shouldn't
have happened.
Our species are
too dissimilar.
What shouldn't
have happened?
We call it olan'vora...
"the shared heart."
When two of us merge...
the biological connection
You know
we had last night?
It becomes stronger.
It won't hurt you, Harry,
but it will change you.
It'll change both of us...
bring us closer.
So, can this process
be reversed?
In time...
if we stay away
from each other,
but if we don't...
the more we're together,
the harder it will be
to stop it.
But then, you have
your orders.
Orders.
It's an old story.
the wrong side of the galaxy.
Boy meets girl from
Boy loses girl.
And girl loses boy.
It's not like
we didn't know
this was going to end.
At least we had
two weeks.
Two great weeks.
Good-bye, Harry.
Bye.
Are you really going
to let me leave?
If that's what you want.
It's not.
Welcome aboard.
CHAKOTAY:
something about our guests
Normally we like to know
before we invite them
to join us.
how you got here?
Care to tell us
Through a docking port.
Your entry would
have triggered
an intruder alert.
easy to circumvent.
Your technology is
It doesn't matter
how I got here.
I'm not going back.
That remains to be seen.
You haven't explained
your reasons for leaving
the generational ship.
if that's what you think.
I'm not a criminal,
the next inhabited system,
If you leave me at
I'll manage from there.
Your next stop
is the brig
unless you answer
my questions.
I came aboard four days ago
with one of the work details.
Why?
Our ship's not the paradise
our leaders make it out to be.
who feel like prisoners, and...
There are thousands of us
others who...
Continue.
There are...
rumors of a movement...
to leave the ship.
people who want
Some of them are willing
to take violent action.
more specific?
Can you be
This is a trick.
A trick?
You're trying
to get me
to expose the movement.
Our leaders put you up to this.
On the contrary.
told them we found you.
We haven't even
You're lying.
I don't have time
for a debate.
You asked for asylum, fine.
I'll consider it,
answer my questions.
but only if you
What movement?
Contact the Varro
authorities.
Let them know we've found
one of their people,
and take him to the brig.
the authorities
You can tell
that I'm not
the only one.
There are hundreds
more like me.
this supposed uprising?
Learn anything about
CHAKOTAY:
are just that-- rumors--
Jippeq said the rumors
stowaway just to be certain.
but he's questioning our
working with the Varro.
New protocols for
After the incident
with Ensign Kim,
they insisted we keep
our crews segregated.
That's pretty severe.
Harry violated protocol.
Frankly, I understand
their position.
came down so hard on him?
Is that why you
A formal reprimand for being
intimate with a young woman?
a little extreme...
I know it seems
but I wanted to leave
a lasting impression.
Chalk it up to growing pains.
Well, he looks pained,
all right.
he's had a spotless record.
Until now,
Maybe you should reconsider.
What are you implying?
because Harry disobeyed orders
Are you angry
or because he let you down?
I set the same standards
for all my officers.
to one of your decisions,
If I object
even insist I speak up.
you'll hear me out...
You're my First Officer.
He's an Ensign.
He hasn't earned the right
to question my orders
whatever his personal views.
I see.
Engineering to the Captain.
TORRES:
Yes?
We found something.
On my way.
Do your officers
make a habit
of seducing the species
they encounter?
it's my understanding
Certainly not, but
that this relationship
was consensual.
I find that difficult
to believe.
We don't share your cavalier
attitude toward intimacy.
anything but cavalier.
Our attitude is
Ensign Kim has already
been reprimanded.
What happens to her?
What about Tal?
is taken very seriously.
In our society, mating
other, the bonding is permanent.
When two people choose each
biochemically linked.
They become
Separation is rare.
It induces illness,
sometimes fatal.
What's to become of Tal
when your Ensign flies off in
search of his next conquest?
TORRES:
Captain.
You found something?
JANEWAY:
We've detected
microfractures
in one of Voyager's
docking ports.
same problem we've been having.
Microfractures? That's the
A coincidence?
I had suspicions
that it wasn't.
Seven confirmed them.
Observe. Silicon-
based parasites
duranium alloys.
which feed on
began replicating
Apparently, they
on the Varro ship's hull
several months ago
and then migrated
to Voyager.
We analyzed them and found
artificial gene sequences.
are synthetic.
The parasites
by someone aboard your vessel.
They may have been created
I don't believe it.
Sabotage?
Perhaps not everyone
is content to be
in your collective.
( communications beep )
Tal, are you there?
KIM:
Harry?
this com-link open.
I can't keep
Where are you?
By my computer.
Get ready for a ride.
Okay.
I'm locking on.
A ride?
( gasps )
Where are we?
A shuttlecraft.
Shuttlecraft?
A short-range vessel.
We use it for away missions.
anywhere we want?
We can go
Anywhere.
For a while anyway.
I'm not due back on Voyager
until 1900 hours.
repairing a hull fracture.
They think I'm still out
I finished early.
( both laughing )
You're a fugitive now.
did you break this time?
How many protocols
Let's see...
of a shuttlecraft...
unauthorized use
kidnapping...
the Captain's orders...
Direct violation of
I must be crazy.
I like you crazy.
( laughs softly )
Navigation?
That's the weapons array.
Oh, careful.
you almost vaporized
You know,
your living quarters.
( laughs )
Well, they could use
a good cleaning.
Let's go somewhere.
Where?
300,000 kilometers from here.
There's a nebula about
I've been watching it
on the sensors
for the past few days.
see it with my own eyes.
Oh, I would love to
Have a seat.
a subspace vacuole
Look at this--
TAL:
near the center of the cloud.
gravitational anchor.
It must act as a
There's so much
data here,
it'll take weeks
to analyze.
storage device?
Do you have a
We need to download
these readings.
What?
I've just never seen
anyone so excited about
a class-3 nebula before.
Maybe you've been taking them
for granted.
Maybe I have.
Don't stop.
when you're scanning.
You're beautiful
Is that what you say to every
girl you take for a ride?
I bet you've
left a trail
across the Delta Quadrant.
of broken hearts
Actually...
( console beeping )
Problem?
Stray radiation
from the nebula.
the proximity alarm.
I thought it was
a couple of hours.
You said we had
to come looking for us.
No one's going
Oh, you don't know
Commander Tuvok.
If he sees one electron
out of place,
he calls for Red Alert.
( laughing )
( frustrated sigh )
Here we are alone,
and all I can think about
is duty and orders.
Those things are important.
I think about them, too.
you need to follow
But sometimes
a different kind
of protocol.
If you believe in something
strongly enough,
you can't ignore it...
breaking a few rules.
even if it means
That's why I took
this shuttle,
I break a rule,
but every time
is going to decompress.
I feel like my skull
I'm like some kind
of... Borg drone--
programmed--
the perfect Starfleet officer.
except I was designed to be
Top of his class...
team, interstellar honors.
captain of the velocity
First field assignment--
Bridge officer
on a starship.
dream come true.
Every cadet's
You're not a program.
In fact, I envy your freedom.
I mean, your crew's mission--
to seek out life...
more liberating?
what could be
You explore the unknown.
what's happening between us.
Don't be afraid to explore
( console beeping )
Oh, no.
The Delta Flyer.
Commander Tuvok?
We're being hailed.
Well, you better answer them
before they open fire.
( sighs )
Kim here.
Ensign, you are
TUVOK:
of the Captain's orders.
in direct violation
and bring Derran Tal with you.
Return to Voyager immediately
Yes, sir, but why bring Tal?
by the Varro authorities
She's wanted
regarding an act of sabotage.
There's no point in lying.
We found a schematic
for the parasite
on your personal
database.
destroy our ship, our home?
You realize this could
it's more like a prison.
To some of us,
So you've resorted
to sabotage,
no doubt involving him.
Mr. Kim's complicity
remains to be proven.
He had nothing to do
with our movement.
Tell them.
"Movement"?
of their concern.
It's none
JIPPEQ:
you'll need to explain.
If you want our help,
She's referring to a small
group of dissidents...
There are hundreds of us.
It's not a small group.
What are you trying
to achieve?
Our freedom!
The right to live as we choose,
to go where we choose.
How will you accomplish that
if your vessel is destroyed?
TUVOK:
We're not trying
to destroy it.
We're trying to dismantle it.
weren't placed randomly.
The parasites
They're targeting
the linkages
between segments.
become its own ship.
Each segment will
whether to go or stay.
People can decide
You're destroying the work
that came before you.
of every generation
a collection of modules.
Our ship isn't just
of unity, tradition.
It's an expression
of our history,
For the sake
the rights of...
we must respect
Of the majority.
Yes!
What about the rights
of the minority?
Tal... if those segments
come apart,
decompressive explosions...
there could be
most likely casualties.
Is that what you want?
the parasites than we do.
You know more about
You could help us.
Captain, she's a criminal.
And maybe your only chance
of stopping a catastrophe.
Set up a datalink
with Voyager.
We'll do what we can
from our end.
Tal...
slow down the parasites,
I'll help you
the segments in danger...
so you can evacuate
nothing more.
Let's get started.
Captain...
Stow it, Ensign.
the only thing standing
Right now,
between you and the brig
is this report.
The Doctor's bio-scans
confirm that you and Tal
have developed
of biochemical bond.
some sort
Clearly, it's affected
your behavior,
why you disobeyed my orders.
so I have to assume that's
Report to Sick Bay.
You'll be confined there
until this is over.
Captain!
I told you to report
for treatment!
I don't want
treatment!
In my ready room.
( quietly ):
You've got 30 seconds
drag you to Sick Bay.
before I have Tuvok
Captain, I am not sick.
I didn't disobey your orders
some alien influence.
because I'm under
because Tal and I are in love,
I disobeyed your orders
and it's not right for
you to keep us apart.
Listen to yourself.
like the Harry Kim I know.
You don't sound anything
this ship for five years
Good. I have served on
and said, "yes, ma'am"
orders, but not this time.
to every one of your
You're willing to
risk your rank,
your career over this?
Have you ever been
in love, Captain?
Your point?
Did your skin ever flush
when you were near
another person?
ever feel like someone
Did your stomach
hollowed it out
with a knife
when you were apart?
Did your throat ever swell
when you realized
it was over?
Seven of Nine...
Seven of Nine told me
love's like a disease.
pheromones, endorphins,
Well, maybe it is--
chemicals in our blood
changing our responses,
physical discomfort,
at it, it's still love.
but any way you look
For the sake of argument,
let's say you're right.
Tal are no different
Your feelings for
than mine for-- what?
The man I was engaged
to marry?
and you're going to lose Tal.
Well, I lost him,
You know that.
What the Doctor is offering you
is a way to ease the pain.
That man you were
going to marry--
just taken a hypospray
if you could have
to make yourself
stop loving him
so that it didn't
hurt so much
when you were
away from him,
would you have
done that?
( explosion )
Captain to the Bridge.
CHAKOTAY:
breaches on the Varro ship.
We're detecting structural
Take your station.
Their shields are weakening.
is about to decompress.
One of the junctions
On screen.
Mr. Paris, release
the docking clamps.
Back us away.
Docking controls are off-line.
I can't break us free.
are continuing to weaken.
Their shields
TUVOK:
The superstructure
will collapse
three minutes.
in less than
If that happens while
we're still docked...
Janeway to Varro control room.
Keep trying to break free.
What's your status?
to slow the parasites' growth
Tal was able
with a polaron surge,
are still destabilizing.
but the junctions
evacuated the affected areas?
How much longer until you've
We need another two minutes
at least.
I've got the docking controls
back on line.
Initiate decompression sequence.
Wait. If we stay
where we are,
structural integrity field
and extend Voyager's
around the Varro ship,
another minute or two.
we could buy them
They could finish
the evacuation.
if an explosion occurs
However,
are inside the field,
while both ships
neither vessel will survive.
We can do it, Captain.
Keep us where we are.
Janeway to Engineering.
Torres here.
Divert all available power
to the integrity field
and extend it around
the Varro ship.
Understood.
Voyager is reinforcing
our shields.
Surprising,
isn't it?
A ship of outsiders
risking their lives
to save ours.
They're unusual people.
Or maybe the galaxy
isn't as hostile as you think.
All junctions are clear.
What are you
waiting for?
Tell Voyager
to move away.
another polaron surge.
I'm initiating
these parasites.
We can destroy
It's too late.
You'll only destroy Voyager
along with our ship.
Let them go.
Let us go.
Tal to Voyager.
The evacuation's complete.
Disengage your structural field
and move to a safe distance.
Releasing docking clamps.
Captain's Log, supplemental.
JANEWAY:
have opted to stay together
Most of the Varro
traveling in separate ships,
but the dissident group
has been granted permission
to break away
and find their own path.
We wish them luck.
( door beeps )
Come in.
I'd see you again.
I wasn't sure
The Captain gave me permission
to say good-bye.
How are you feeling?
Lovesick.
Me, too.
Will you manage?
We have medications.
I'll recover
eventually.
are you going?
So, where
The Natori system.
A pair of binary stars
caught in each
other's gravity.
a parsec three months ago,
We passed within
and now we're going
back for a real look.
Do me one favor.
Anything.
Next time you run across
a class-3 nebula,
think of me.
acute gastroenteritis--
Chronic sleep loss,
you must feel awful,
refusing treatment?
yet you're still
Captain, just the person
I wanted to see.
gone on long enough.
This nonsense has
Order Mr. Kim to
take his medicine.
Is his condition fatal?
That's hardly
the point.
without taking his medicine?
Will he recover
Yes, but it could take
weeks, even months.
Well, then, if Mr. Kim
wants to suffer...
everyone on this ship
Sometimes I think
has been possessed
by alien hormones.
Would you excuse us, please?
Thank you.
Oh, don't thank me.
I have no intention
of relieving you of your duties,
no matter how lousy you feel.
I understand.
And the reprimand
still stands.
I've been thinking
about how I reacted
to your relationship with Tal.
any Captain would.
You reacted like
can't help wondering
Probably, but I
if my response would
have been the same
Tom Paris instead of you.
if it had been, say,
Oh, don't get me wrong.
angry and disappointed, but...
I still would have been
I wouldn't have
been surprised.
doesn't break the rules.
Because Ensign Kim
The truth is, Harry...
I think about
you differently
than the rest
of the crew.
Which isn't to suggest
that I don't care
deeply about each
of them, but...
you came to me fresh
out of the Academy,
wide-eyed with excitement
deep space assignment.
about your first
From that first day,
I've always felt
you than the others.
more protective of
I appreciate that...
was five years ago.
but that
I've changed.
Yes, you have.
the perfect officer anymore.
Maybe I'm not
Maybe not...
a better man.
but you're
Last call.
There's a bowl of soup
in storage,
the replicator on line.
and I left
Thanks.
Good night.
Oh, I was just closing
up for the evening,
but if you
need anything...
to see Ensign Kim.
I'm here
Oh. Good luck.
Ensign.
Hmm?
Thank you.
For what?
You completed several
of my astrometric scans
this morning.
You're welcome.
between duty shifts.
I had some time
Besides, it kept me occupied.
to distract yourself
You are attempting
from your emotional damage.
I wish I could say
it was working.
your condition was available
A treatment to relieve
and yet you refused.
I've got a disease,
live with the symptoms.
but I'm willing to
Doesn't make much
sense does it?
I assumed that romantic love
was a human weakness,
but clearly it can also be
a source of strength.
Perhaps my analogy
was flawed.
Love is not a disease.
Get well soon.